.\" Copyright (c) 1992,1994,1996 Bunyip Information Systems Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.  
.\"	
.\" Archie 3.5
.\" August 1996
.\"	
.\"	@(#)anonftp_parser_output.5
.\"
.TH ANONFTP_PARSER_OUTPUT 5 "August 1996"

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B anonftp_parser_output
\- description of the output of the Archie anonymous FTP listing parsers
for the anonftp catalog
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Currently all anonymous FTP listings in the Archie system are parsed from
the Operating System specific format in to a common Archie-defined parser
output format. This allows the system to have standard database
structures, and updating routines without having to worry abou the
individual characteristics of each operating system. This format is
described below. One of the underlying assumptions is that the file
system of the listing being parsed has a tree-like structure with the
concepts of internal nodes (directories) and leaves (files).

The parser output corresponding to a particular listing consists of a
sequence of variable length records, one record per file in the listing.
This is composed of a fixed "core" component followed by a variable
length string.

The core is composed of records with fields:

<file_size><date_time><parent><child><perms><flags>

where

.TP
.B <file_size>
Is and unsigned 32 bit quantity containing the size of the file.
.TP
.B <date_time>
An unsigned 32 bit quantity. It's value is interpreted as seconds UTC
(GMT) since Jan 1, 1970. The actual quantity that it represents varies
between operating systems, but it is typically the creation or last
modification time for the file in question.
.TP
.B
<parent>
Unsigned 32 bit quantity. It is the record number of the parent directory
in the current file. A value of zero signifies that the parent directory
is the root.
.TP
.B
<child>
Unsigned 32 bit. The record number of the first child of this directory.
It is zero if the current record describes a directory which has no
children. It is undefined for regular files.
.TP
.B <perms>
Unsigned 16 bit. Contains a bit vector for the permission field values
in an operating-system dependent fashion.
.TP
.B <flags>
Unsigned 16 bit. A bit vector of particular attributes of the entry.
Currently if the entry is a directory, bit 1 is set. If it is a link, bit
2 is set.
.LP

The rest of the record consists of an unsigned 16 bit quantity containing
the length of the string (in bytes) in the record. This value is always
rounded up to the next multiple of 4. The final element is a variable
length byte sequence containing the string itself. This is always padded
up to the next 4-byte boundary.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR parse_anonftp_* (n),
.BR net_anonftp (n), 
Archie System Manual
.SH AUTHOR
Bunyip Information Systems.
.br
Montr\o"\'e"al, Qu\o"\'e"bec, Canada

.sp
Archie is a registered trademark of Bunyip Information Systems Inc., Canada,
1990.
