.TH __USERVER__ 1 "8 September 1994"
.SH NAME
__SERVER__ \- convert between __PROTO__ and Prospero protocols

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B __SERVER__ [\fB\-acl \fIacl\-file\fR]
[\fB\-config \fItcl\-script\fR] [\fB\-debug\fR]
[\fB\-emesg \fIfile\fR] [\fB\-log \fIlog\-file\fR]
[\fB\-pdebug \fInum\fR] [\fB\-phost \fIhost\fR]
[\fB\-port \fInum\fR] [\fB\-proot \fIprosp\-root\fR]
[\fB\-stay\fR] [\fB\-user \fIname\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B __SERVER__
serves the contents of a Prospero File System directory tree, while giving
the appearance, to __PROTO__ clients, of an ordinary __PROTO__ server.  When
started without arguments \fB__SERVER__\fR listens on port __PORT__ (officially
assigned to __PROTO__), and treats the root of the Prospero tree as the main
__PROTO__ menu.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 5n
.B \-acl \fIacl\-file\fR
Access control list.
.IR acl\-file
contains a list of network and host addresses, one per line, which
limits the sites that may access the server.  All addresses must be
in dotted decimal format, and no other type of line may appear in the
file.  Network addresses may be abreviated; for example, `8' refers
to the network `8.0.0.0'.

.TP 5n
.B \-config \fItcl\-script\fR
Execute \fItcl\-script\fR upon start\-up.  Sending SIGUSR1 to the parent
process will cause the script to be re\-executed.  This code is still under
development, so the exact effect of executing the script is not yet
defined.

.TP 5n
.B \-debug
Write debugging information to \fIstderr\fR.  Note that in normal
operation, as a daemon, \fIstderr\fR is not attached to any file,
so any ouput to it will be lost.  (See below for information on the
\fB\-log\fR and \fB\-stay\fR options.)  The \fB\-debug\fR option is
normally used for debugging.

.TP 5n
.B \-emesg \fIfile\fR
Where to log special messages.
Special messages, as opposed to those written to a log file, are normally
sent to the console.  They may be directed to the file or device given
by the \fIfile\fR argument.  This option is normally used for debugging.

.TP 5n
.B \-log \fIlog\-file\fR
Log debugging information to a file.
\fIstderr\fR is connected to the file given as the argument.  This
allows debugging information to be saved when running as a daemon.
This option is normally used for debugging.

.TP 5n
.B \-pdebug \fInum\fR
Print Prospero debugging information to \fIstderr\fR.  The Prospero
libraries use the numeric argument as a debug level.  This option is
normally used for debugging.

.TP 5n
.B \-phost \fIhost\fR
The argument is the name of the host on which the Prospero directory
tree resides.  The default is \fIlocalhost\fR.

.TP 5n
.B \-port \fInum\fR
The numeric argument is the port on which to listen for connections from
__PROTO__ clients.  The default is __PORT__.

.TP 5n
.B \-proot \fIprosp\-root\fR
The argument is the name of the Prospero virtual directory which is to
appear as the root of the __PROTO__ directory tree.  The default is the
root of the Prospero virtual directory tree.

.TP 5n
.B \-stay
Stay in the foreground.  The server will not background itself, as it
would when started normally.  If the \fB\-debug\fR option is specified,
debugging information will be sent to \fIstderr\fR, unless overridden by
the \fB\-log\fR option.  The \fB\-stay\fR option is normally used for
debugging.

.TP 5n
.B \-user \fIname\fR
.B __SERVER__
will attempt to change both its real and effective user IDs to that of
the specified user, which may be either a name or a number.  Normally,
this is used only when the daemon is started by root.

.SH SEE ALSO
Documentation provided with the Prospero distribution,
.br
Documentation provided with the __PROTO__ distribution.

.SH AUTHOR
Bunyip Information Systems
.br
Montr\o"\'e"al, Qu\o"\'e"bec, Canada
