-*-text-*-
This document describes the compatability features of the Version 5 server.

The version 5 server is also capable of responding to requests from
clients speaking version 1 of the Prospero Protocol.  However, the
user should note the following:

1) The version 1 clients and server never fully implemented the
quoting mechanisms that were specified in the Prospero protocol
version 1 spec.  So, if you use version 5 clients to create links to
files with spaces or newlines in their names, or have hostnames with
strange characters in their names, or have attributes with strange
characters in their names or values, the version 1 clients may not
interpret protocol messages about them correctly.  There is no fix.
If you want to, you can add code to server/dirsrv_v1.c that keeps
messages about such objects from being sent; I have not taken the time
to do so.

2) Version 1 Attributes only had type ASCII.  Version 5 attributes
have type SEQUENCE, and may contain multiple tokens.  When speaking to
a version 1 protocol server, SEQUENCE attributes are returned with the
multiple tokens space-separated.  Other types of attributes will be
ignored.

3) It would be best to just forget about using filters with version 1 protocol
clients speaking to a version 5 server.  Filters have changed
radically in version 5, and I have not struggled to make them
backwards compatible with version 1 filters.

4) Access methods have changed radically from version 1 to version 5,
as has the syntax of external links.  The ACCESS-METHOD attribute is
being appropriately munged for the occasion.  So you're safe :).

5) The Prospero version 4 clients and server never fully implemented
the V1 protocol's EDIT-LINK-INFO and EDIT-OBJECT-INFO.  This remains
true; you must use version 5 protocol to edit link and object attributes.

6) Version 1 protocol clients have no way of sending KERBEROS
authentication messages.
